hello everyone my name is Sai Li and I'm
one of the expert teachers here at ET
language and welcome to another TOEFL
class I'm just gonna share my screen
with you right now so welcome to another
tofu class and today we are gonna look
at tofu writing so before we start
all can you just let me know if you can
hear me and see me I just type yes in
the chat box if you can hear me see me
and if you can see the PowerPoint
presentation as well okay all right
thank you so much so let's get started
in today's class we are going to look at
TOEFL writing so in the writing section
of the test are you'll be given 60
minutes to do an integrated writing task
where you'll have to listen to a
recording and sometimes read a passage
and then write to 230 to 300 words and
then there's the independent writing
task which is the SAT essay writing task
where you get 30 minutes to write an
essay which should be at least 300 words
so it can be more than 300 bar
definitely not less than 300 so today we
are going to look at the independent
writing task the essay writing task so
you must be thinking what kind of
question could you get in the
independent writing task we know it's
going to be an essay but what kind of an
essay so you may be asked to
agree or disagree with a certain
position you may be asked to compare and
contrast certain things you may be asked
express your preference so you'll be
given a three or four different options
and you'll be asked to choose one and
explain why you made that choice
another one is explained which is more
descriptive they'll ask you to explain a
trip to somewhere or something easier
than explaining your position then
another one is described which is
describing your position and then
there's a discuss a hypothetical so
today we are only going to look at the
first three so these are more
traditional essay types or essay types
that are also part of many other tests
like the IELTS and TOEFL
oh sorry io-san Pte so let's have a look
at these so this is on the contest day
this is what your screen would look like
before you start the independent writing
task so these are your directions so
let's just quickly go through them so it
says for this task you will write an
essay in response to a question that
asks you to state explain and support
your opinion on an issue you have 30
minutes to plan write and revise your
essay typically an effective essay will
contain a minimum of 300 words your
essay will be judged on the quality of
your writing this includes the
development of your ideas the
organization of your essay and the
quality and accuracy of the language you
use to express your ideas so this is so
these instructions are really good
because they essentially tell you what
you have to do how how long do you have
to do that and how you'll be marked so
you'll have 30 minutes to write 300
words and support explain and state your
opinion and they'll be judging you on
these
different criteria alright so the next
page will look something like this where
you'll have instructions again 30
minutes 300 words you have the question
prompt then you have the cut paste undo
options you'll be able to see your word
count so you don't manually have to
count how many words you've written
sorry okay so we now know that we need
to write a 300 word essay but where do
we start so don't worry we have a method
for you so that it's easier for you on
test day so you write the essay and you
don't have to spend time thinking about
where to start step 1 read carefully so
you need to read the question prompt
carefully so let's have a look at the
question front the question asks do you
agree or disagree with the following
statement there is nothing that young
people can teach older people use
specific reasons and examples to support
your position so this is our question so
which one do you think it is is it agree
disagree compare contrast or um which
which tasks do you think it is so it
says it in the question itself
it's an agree disagree task so you
either have to agree with this position
or disagree and what's the position
there is nothing that young people can
teach older people ok so now let's think
about this is there really nothing that
all people can teach young people young
people who can teach older people sorry
hmm
look at these pictures and give it your
afford
so tell me tell me the chat box what is
happening in these but trust what's
happening over here on the left let me
know in the chat box
maybe it's dad and daughter yes yes he's
teaching her how to ride a bike yes and
what is happening on the right so like a
parent is teaching their child something
and on the right side yes grandparents
granddaughter actually not grandson yeah
Skype call yes possibly so who do you
think is teaching home yes
so the granddaughter is teaching the
grandfather how do you Skype maybe ok so
now that we had a little think about the
position that was stated in the question
which was there is nothing that young
people can teach older people and a
question was do you agree or disagree so
tell me in the chat box whether you
agree or disagree now that we've had a
little thing do you agree that all the
people have nothing to learn from
younger people or do you think there's
still something that young people can
take each other people yeah let me know
in the chat box I'll just let me know
whether you agree or disagree
okay so most of you say disagree
all right so in this situation
especially with the green disagree tasks
bear in mind that there's no correct
answer as long as you can justify your
position as long as you can support and
give examples it's fine like it doesn't
matter the Assessor is not going to mark
you and whether you agree or disagree
they're not gonna mock you on your
opinion they're gonna mock you and how
well you can support it using different
linguistic skills okay so if you agree
then you think that there is nothing
young people can teach other people and
if you disagree you think that young
people have something to teach older
people so now let's look at what the
question says it says use specific
reasons and examples to support your
position so that means as long as you
have that's why I suggest to go with
whichever one is easier for you to find
like reasons and examples to support
because if you choose agree and you
don't have enough to write on that then
it's going to be really hard for you to
defend yourself like defend your
position or disagree whichever one you
have more ideas for and which you truly
believe I feel like that might be easier
to support okay so now that you've
chosen whether you agree or disagree
tell me why tell me why you think that
either the young people can teach all
the people something or they can teach
them anything then even in the chat box
why do you think that
okay some reset technology yes so that's
something that young people can
definitely teach all the people the
signs that how not to be racist yeah
maybe how to be politically correct so
not say something that's a little bit
inappropriate
yeah
so mostly it's about technology how to
use computers phones social media that's
a good one okay anybody for a girly mmm
can you give me a reason why degree that
does nothing that they can teach
you
yeah there was someone who said agree
earlier but as I said if you don't have
enough reasons it's fun and you can just
I when you're thinking about it you can
always change sides so yeah we looked at
the reasons and examples so here's what
I would write if I said I agree that
there's nothing that they can teach then
I would say young people have very
little real-world experience and
examples would be like they don't have
enough work experience or maybe in
relationships or when we talk about
finances when it's money related they
don't have enough experience and if we
say that we disagree then we can say
because young people at the cutting edge
of technology and social change which is
what you guys said they can teach older
people about using tablets phones they
can teach them about current trends
changes to language and behavior so
that's essentially what we just
discussed and yeah so it's nice to see
that we are all on the same page we
think um okay so that was the first step
and step two step one was to read the
prompt and really think about it
carefully now step two is plan so
effective planning is essential to score
well in the criteria so when your
Assessors are marking your essay this is
what they have this is the marking guide
and if you look at number four
which is which should be REM we should
all try to get five because that's the
highest mark that you can get for the
essay so it says an essay at this level
largely accomplishes all the following
effectively addresses the topic and task
which is why we need to think about the
reasons and examples it is well
organized and well developed using
clearly appropriate explanations
exemplification and/or details displays
unity progression and coherence so all
of these things are related to planning
your essay it's about the organization
of your essay do you really need to
think about how you're going to organize
your ideas before you start writing so
don't assume I know thirty minutes that
seems like a short amount of time to
write 300 words but trust me you'll be
grateful if you have a plan beforehand
but otherwise it becomes really hard to
organize your thoughts once you started
writing all right so I'm going to give
you a structure but this is you don't
have to stick to it you can change it as
you see fit but this is how I would
write it so for in the introduction at
we start with a background statement a
background sentence which will give like
a general background of the topic then
the second sentence would reword the
prompt which means I would our
paraphrase the question restate the
question then I'd write a thesis
statement
so don't we'll go through each file
rough individually so don't don't worry
about that for now I'm just going
through this structure real quick thesis
statement I'll state my opinion in this
case sorry so I state my opinion and lay
out the organization of the differ of my
and what I'm going to discuss in the
essay so in body 1 body paragraph 1 I'll
state my point like my reason I'll
explain it I'll give examples and then
I'll link it back
same with body paragraph 2 and in my
conclusion I'll just summarize the
argument and summarize the reasons so as
I said this structure is a good guy but
you need to be flexible so you might use
different paragraph structures or use
three body paragraphs or play around
with the structure as you see fit so
don't I don't feel like you have to use
this structure and you have to stick
with it so as one good tip would be to
ask yourself questions while you plan so
this will help you come up with more
ideas and it will just make the planning
process quicker and easier so this is
our plan that's our question up there so
let's quickly plan together so maybe my
background statement be something like
teaching adults young people like just a
background statement young people have
nothing to teach that's all that was a
prompt right that was the position that
we were supposed to agree or disagree
with so I'll say that again so my thesis
statement is that I disagree my first
point would be technology so young
people my explanation would be because
young people grew up with it so they're
they're very familiar with it and my
examples would be social media form TV
tablets my second body paragraph would
be about social movements conventions so
this is about like the political
correctness that we discussed so young
people are more connected and
in society through work in media so they
can teach others not to make personal
comments at work and you know just not
say things that are not okay to say
anymore conclusion would be untrue that
young people have nothing to teach and
two important things that they can
okay so we've planned our essay but to
be able to express ourselves and express
those ideas that we have just jotted
down we need to have the right words so
we need the vocabulary so before we
start writing let's look at some helpful
vocabulary I'm gonna give you one minute
I want you to read all of these words
out loud and if you don't know the
meaning of any of these words or if
you're having trouble pronouncing them
or if you have any questions just let me
know in the chat box so I'll just be up
for a minute but so that you can
concentrate on these words so just go
through them read them out loud and I'll
see you in one minute
you
okay guys times up I hope you had a
chance to go through all these words and
read them out loud um so do you have any
questions so somebody asked earlier what
are cohesive devices that's a really
good question so cohesive devices these
words here they help to improve the flow
of your essay and they help to bring
your ideas together to link them
together so they sort of like linking
words where they help bring your ideas
together and make it more cohesive make
them more sensible improve the logical
flow of your essay does that answer your
question okay thank you um so did you
have any trouble understanding any of
these words all publications or a
cohesive devices okay so somebody is
asking what is out of step with to be
out of step with can somebody tell me
what is out of step with
oh well done they're fun yes it is to be
out of touch with it's the same as being
out of touch with not being up to date
yeah
anything else okay
so since there aren't many questions I
assume you have a good handle of these
words so it's Lou so let's have a little
quiz to test ourselves so you need to
fill in the gap and use some of the
words that we saw earlier so again I'll
disappear for one and a half minutes and
then I'll come back yeah by then you
need to fill all these gaps okay
you
okay time's up
so quite a few of you got got at least a
couple right right okay let's check our
answers so number one was youngsters
some claim that youngsters have nothing
of value to impart to those older than
them so youngsters and impart impart is
to to offer to impart us to give
something usually we say impart
knowledge when you give something to
someone of value it's usually used with
knowledge to impart knowledge number two
was on technical and social matters
young people at the cutting edge cutting
it with another collocation these
digital natives are usually called on
for technical support children can show
they're less tech-savvy parents how to
use Netflix so quite a lot of you what
youngsters and tech savvy and some of
you got the other words as well so how
many did you get to the one two three
four five six how many did you get out
of six seven in the chat box okay -
three two - well Beth that's pretty good
okay so why is vocab important because
effective language use is part of the
criteria and this is something that
you'll be marked on so if you look at
the last line here it says displays
consistent facility in the use of
language demonstrating syntactic variety
appropriate word choice and idiomatic
City though it may have minor lexical or
grammatical errors so there's a lot of
big
but what is what sorry what it
essentially means is that you can use a
wide range of vocabulary and grammatical
structures with a high level of accuracy
that means you can use them correctly
which means you have knowledge of them
you can use them correctly and you can
make occasional errors but you mostly
use them right in your matter citys you
can use idioms so essentially it's about
knowing a lot of words and being able to
use them correctly and that includes
collocations collocations would form a
part of idiomatic city as well so a
little fool official guide says that
languages is the third criterion on
which our USA will be charged to get a
top score and si must display consistent
facility in the use of language which is
what we just read so syntactic variety
is grammatically is using various
grammatical structures appropriate word
choice is again vocab related in your
math you do matter study is collocation
related and the guide says that if you
use very simple sentences and very basic
vocabulary you will probably not be able
to express very complex ideas if your
language is hard to follow your
sentences are overly simple and your
vocabulary is limited you may score no
higher than a three no matter how
impressive your ideas may be so it's not
just about putting your the quality of
your ideas it's also about how you
express them though we use language to
express them and as I said essentially
means you use a variety of grammar and
vocab and aim for accuracy using them
correctly so now that we've gone through
all of that
step three is finally to write
so after planning thinking about the
words we are ready to write our essay so
this was the structure that we saw for
the introduction background sentence
reword the prompt thesis statement so
the background statement is something
general so this is my background
statement traditionally it is the older
members of society that I've considered
the wisest and therefore most suitable
people to teach the younger generations
that's my background statement just
talking about all the younger people and
teaching now my second sentence is the
question I'm just restating the question
some would even claim that youngsters
have nothing of value to impart to those
older than them that's essentially a
different way of saying what was in the
question thesis statement here you you
lay out your own opinion and that and
just stayed that that's what you're
going to discuss in this essay so
personally however I completely disagree
and will explain two key ways in which
young people can educate the rest of
society
so that's they're just these three
simple sentences together I make my
introduction so I want you to have a go
at it and write your own introduction
I'm going to give you five minutes you
just need to write three sentences we
have a little bit of a framework there
with the background sentence and the
prompt and the thesis statement so I'm
going to give you five minutes I'm going
to come back in five minutes and then we
look at our introductions together
you
okay everyone time's up
so I hope everyone has been able to
write their introduction and include all
the three sentences so now I want you to
look at your introduction and look at
this marking right here and I've
excluded 0 & 1 because I'm sure you all
of you would do better than that
but I just want you to think about what
school would you give yourself look at
your response oh the one that you saw my
response you can treat that as the
sample response and think about how
you've done on each of these different
bullet points that they've described if
you want you can take a picture of this
page and come back to it later so make
sure that you've addressed the topic and
task so you're especially your
background statement then all of your
sentences as such should be related to
young people all people and teaching
they have to be well organized and
well-developed so it needs to make
logical sense
unity progression coherence so if you
follow that structure it would seem like
a logical that you're trying to form a
logical argument and not make too many
grammatical and vocabulary mistakes okay
now let's look at body paragraph 1 so in
the body paragraph you need to start by
stating your point so this would be mine
perhaps the most obvious area in which
young people have something to offer is
in the field of technology that's my
point technology that's what I've said
then I explained it so to explain it I
would ask myself why how so why
why is it that technology is the most
obvious field and how can they offer
something within this field so my
argument would be having grown up with
stuff with smartphones tablets and
laptops since birth these digital
natives are usually the first ones
called on when technical support is
required so that's how I think they can
help then I have to give an example
right and it has to be really specific
so don't be afraid to use very specific
examples as long as you explain them so
for example I rode while there are
certainly some exceptions in most
families it is the children who set up
the new TV show they are less tech-savvy
parents how to use netflix or install
software on a new laptop so all of these
are very specific examples and for this
you can draw on your own life experience
so I'm sure we have all experience of
having to help our parents with new
technology helping them use social media
set up their social media accounts
explain to them how Twitter works for
example so don't be afraid to use
personal examples like that then the
final one is to link back so you need to
link back to the topic or link forward
to the possible effects so always this
helps this helps improve the coherence
of your essay which is again something
that you're marked on so we good idea to
link so this is how I have linked it
back to the topic in other words when it
comes to technology young people clearly
have a lot to impart to their elders so
this is yeah as I said I was linked back
to the topic and here
I'm linking forward to a hypothetical
impact like just making a prediction for
the future so for example without their
assistance
coping with emerging technology could be
frustrating and and costly exercise for
older family members so this is if it
weren't like that how would it be okay
now I want you to write body paragraph 2
I'll show you the essay so far so what I
have come up with is this now to help
you out a little bit I'm going to write
the point which which is essentially the
topic sentence which will tell us
whether what our whole argument is going
to be so this is this could be the star
of your second body paragraph the other
area in which young people can educate
older generations although they may not
always be receptive is in matters of
social movements and cultural shifts now
I need to explain right I made my point
now I need to explain so this is how I
would explain to generalize broadly the
older generations can often be out of
step with current conventions of
language and behavior now what I want
you to do is write the examples the way
we discuss don't be afraid to draw on
your personal experiences so I want you
to give me examples of when all the
people can be out of touch with the with
new social movements and cultural shifts
in society and how younger people can
help them acclimate to the new changing
world ok so give examples and don't
forget to add a link
the back to the topic sentence or like
link back to the main topic or to give a
hypothetical if if it weren't like this
what would happen okay so write your
example sorry
so write your examples and don't forget
to link it back
I'll give you sorry at a time I'm
missing that but um I think I'll give
you another five minutes to do this yeah
I think five minutes should be enough
I'll give you five minutes to write your
examples and link and I will be back in
five minutes
you
all right hope you guys have some
smashing examples and linked sentences
[Music]
hmm yeah it'd be nice to have a look at
your examples and sentences yeah you
could just write her whatever you have
written down you can just write that in
your chat in the chat box
okay MIMO says it's too long to type
sure no worries so as long as you can
look at the marking criteria again and
just assess for yourself how well you've
done on each of those bullet points and
what you need to work on that'd be great
because then you can practice those
skills more often and get a better score
okay so now this was body paragraph 2 so
now let's look at the conclusion you can
always add a third body paragraph if you
want if you have another idea
you can add another paragraph but I
think this should be enough for 300
words so let's go to the conclusion so
in the conclusion usually you would
summarize your argument and you'd
summarize your reason so this is my
conclusion sorry mm-hm so I've written
to conclude even though the older
generation will always be looked to for
guidance knowledge and support and right
he saw it is wrong to say that young
people have nothing to offer in return
on technical and social matters
youngsters are at the cutting edge and
it is only natural for them
share what they know so I've tried to
summarize my argument saying that it is
not true just restating my opinion that
it is not true that young people cannot
teach anything to all the people and
I've just sort of summed up my reasons
technical and social matters that's
essentially what I discussed throughout
my essay youngsters are better equipped
to deal with technical and social issues
as compared to older people and all the
people could learn from them alright so
we have finished with the essay but not
so fast before you move on there is step
4 so once you're done writing your
entire essay make sure you revise it
this is a very important step because
the best of us make silly mistakes or
you know it could be like a spelling
mistake or just you know like we have
slip of a slip of the tongue we have
like slip of the hand where you would
just probably miss an S or maybe your
subject doesn't agree with you mmm your
subject and verb don't agree mmm so just
be careful of that so I'm just going to
show you my sample essay and you have to
find 12 errors so there are 12 mistakes
and they say that I'm going to show you
and you need to find them I'm going to
give you two minutes to find the
mistakes and to fix them so you can find
them and then we can go through it
together and fix each one two minutes go
through it quickly okay stop
you
okay time's up
I have already started getting a few
answers so let's check okay so
traditionally so these are the places
where there were mistakes let's see if
you can fix these so for the first one
let's go through the entire essay
together traditionally it is the older
members of society that are considered
the wisest and therefore most suitable
people to teach so we had four teacher
which doesn't quite make sense to teach
suitable people to teach the young
generations some would even claims so
this was the subject verb agreement that
I was talking about some people some
would even claim some would even claim
that youngsters have nothing of value to
impart to those older than them the next
mistake was here
perhaps most obvious we were missing an
article there you're missing at the
there definite article perhaps the most
obvious area in which young people have
something to offer is in the field of
technology so the wrong so the wrong
word was having grew up having grown up
having grown up with smartphones tablets
and laptops since birth these we said
this here which is incorrect it should
say these digital natives are usually
the first ones called on when technical
support is required this is a very
common mistake the next one in another
words we don't say in another words we
say in
oops sorry we say in other words in
other words I know it it's hard because
sometimes it can sound like another but
it's always other in other words when it
comes to technology young people have a
lot to impart to their elders the next
one was here young people can be
educated so that would have been passive
if we had can be educated but here it's
actually an active sentence which says
the other area in which young people can
educate for the generations so there we
don't need that be because with more
modal verbs followed by other verbs we
don't need a helping verb so can educate
whereas so here we have nevertheless ah
nevertheless is when you sort of add
something whereas is when you contrast
something so here you had it may for
instance have been permissible to
comment on our person's appearance or
sexuality in the workplace 20 years ago
nevertheless now there is no now that is
not only unacceptable but in some cases
ilio so here we had two errors it should
have been whereas now because it's
nevertheless would mean that it's saying
nevertheless nevertheless it's okay to
do that now but here it's a contrast now
it's not okay to do that so which means
whereas now this isn't um sorry
whereas now this is not only
unacceptable but in some cases illegal
so i'm illegal we skipped an L that was
the mistake double l illegal with double
L another classic mistake to conclude
even
sorry sorry papa
so we wanted to use even though the
conjunction even though but instead we
added an extra tea and that becomes
thought so we needed to be even though
without the tea at the end to conclude
even though the older generation will
always be looked for looked to for
guidance knowledge and support and
rightly so it is wrong to say that young
people have nothing to offer
he again subject-verb agreement young
people has that's incorrect we need have
young people have nothing to offer in
return so
how is it those without mistakes now
let's review the method let's see if we
can remember what the method was so fast
was to read carefully give that a minute
read the prompt carefully try to
understand what the question is asking
of you number two was to plan two
minutes to plan quickly that's why we
have the template so that you can
quickly plan your essay you have 24
minutes to write so use most of your
time to write the essay and you can keep
thinking about new words new grammatical
structures as you write and three
minutes to revise so you have two
minutes there you can give yourself
three minutes in the actual test to find
your mistakes and correct them alright
so we're at the end of our lesson today
but if you want to practice more you can
go to e to language comm there you can
review recorded classes so we'll be
uploading these life classes to the
recorded classes section on the platform
you can also submit your writing and
speaking for feedback so we have writing
and speaking prompts questions which you
can answer
and we'll have one of expert teachers
corrected for you and give you feedback
on what you need to work on and you can
book one-on-one tutorials so after
receiving your feedback if you still
feel like you need help with something
in particular for example grammar or
pronunciation or something like that you
can always book a tutorial with one of
our teachers and be sure to use the
course materials they're very helpful
you can look at each question type how
it how its structured how it should be
answered how its scored we have all that
information in there with all the
different methods that you can use and
also make sure that you read because
reading really helps you learn new words
which in turn will help you write better
so you can listen to TED talks you can
read the articles on National Geographic
BBC news you can take a picture of the
screen so that you can go back to these
resources whenever you need them I'll
just give you a second to take up
[Music]
and if you have any tech issues or if
you have any questions about the
platform content you can contact us at
help.imis.com any questions any
questions about today's class yes
we recently restarted our TOEFL life
classes and you can sign up for these
classes on e to language comm we are
going to have new classes four times a
week so this week we have them from
Tuesday to Friday but from next week
onwards we will have them from Monday to
Thursday 5:00 p.m. melbourne time so you
can go to e2 language comm and if you
click on the total page you should be
able to be able to sign up for one of
these classes okay
thank you so much all right um so if you
want feedback on your writing again you
can go to e2 language comm we have
writing questions there so you can
submit your you're writing your essay Oh
which I've all writing question you want
to practice you can submit that and we
are one of our expert teachers will mark
it for you and give you a feedback and
if you feel like you still need help you
can always book a tutorial with one of
our experts okay thank you
alright I think that's it thank you
everyone for joining us and I'll see you
at the next class fine